Project Overview
A music streaming startup, Sparkify, has grown their user base and song database and want to move their processes and data onto the cloud. Their data resides in S3, in a directory of JSON logs on user activity on the app, as well as a directory with JSON metadata on the songs in their app.

In this project, an ETL pipeline will be created to build a data warehouses on Redshift.

Datasets Used
Song Dataset and Log Dataset will be used in this project which is stored in S3 bucket.

Song Dataset:
It's a subset of real data from Million Song Dataset. Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. The files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song's track ID.

Sample Data:

{"num_songs": 1, "artist_id": "ARJIE2Y1187B994AB7", "artist_latitude": null, "artist_longitude": null, "artist_location": "", "artist_name": "Line Renaud", "song_id": "SOUPIRU12A6D4FA1E1", "title": "Der Kleine Dompfaff", "duration": 152.92036, "year": 0}

Log Dataset
The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this event simulator based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate app activity logs from an imaginary music streaming app based on configuration settings.

The log files in the dataset are partitioned by year and month.

Sample Data:

{"artist":null,"auth":"Logged In","firstName":"Walter","gender":"M","itemInSession":0,"lastName":"Frye","length":null,"level":"free","location":"San Francisco-Oakland-Hayward, CA","method":"GET","page":"Home","registration":1540919166796.0,"sessionId":38,"song":null,"status":200,"ts":1541105830796,"userAgent":"\"Mozilla\/5.0 (Macintosh; Intel Mac OS X 10_9_4) AppleWebKit\/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome\/36.0.1985.143 Safari\/537.36\"","userId":"39"}

Schema

Fact Table
songplays - records in event data associated with song plays. Columns for the table:
songplay_id, start_time, user_id, level, song_id, artist_id, session_id, location, user_agent

Dimension Tables
users
user_id, first_name, last_name, gender, level

songs
song_id, title, artist_id, year, duration

artists
artist_id, name, location, lattitude, longitude

time
start_time, hour, day, week, month, year, weekday

How to create Redshift cluster
Use create_cluster.ipynb to create and launch new Redshift Cluster.

Config file
dwh.cfg is the config file.
Make sure you have AWS Key and Secret key before running create_custer.ipynb and store it in dwh.cfg config file

Once we run create_cluster.ipynb, we will be getting the below details.
HOST will be DWH_ENDPOINT
ARN will be DWH_ARN_Role

[CLUSTER]
HOST=''
DB_NAME=''
DB_USER=''
DB_PASSWORD=''
DB_PORT=5439

[IAM_ROLE]
ARN=<IAM Role arn>

[S3]
LOG_DATA='s3://udacity-dend/log_data'
LOG_JSONPATH='s3://udacity-dend/log_json_path.json'
SONG_DATA='s3://udacity-dend/song_data'

To Create tables and load data, execute the below commands
!python create_tables.py -- this will create tables
!python create_tables.py --  this will load the data

